I'll just put it over there.
And we're talking with Jonathan.
I guess, of course, you are one of the great historians.
When it comes to China and the Orient, there's no one stronger than yourself.
And you were active in her role, I guess, in initiating this project at Yale.
I wonder if we could just enter the conversation talking a little bit about that, your thoughts about it,
what I thought was important, and it's ironically English.
Yes, I wasn't, I didn't think I was an initiator in any way.
Not an initiator, but you certainly had, yeah.
I mean, I was in, you know, the press obviously knew I was interested in China, and usually wrote about China.
And it did seem to me looking for ideas that the press might pursue.
that one of the areas where there's so much exciting work going on is on the intersection of texts and archaeology and art.
Somehow the new archaeological discoveries in China were illuminating all kinds of things about the past.
Yale had this terrific tradition by Trump by working with the volumes by Casey Zhang on Chinese archaeology in particular, and had a
had a prior arrangement, I guess, with Professor Zhang to introduce some interesting books, often written originally in Chinese, into English through the press.
And then we had a considerable experience publishing catalogues of various kinds, which is art books is one of the great strengths of the press.
And I think that's fairly built up with the British Art Centre and the Melbourne Foundation.
I think probably in Chester Kerr's days, and it was strongly after John Ryden, which continued.
So it seemed to me there was some kind of logical linkage here, but it was actually John Ryden who pursued that with, I guess, interested donors and friends of the press, and then arranged for an administrator of this series.
And then I think we can say that the series ran into
at the level of defining what he was trying to do and actually some of the managerial problems that surfaced during this.
It was essentially, I think,
There wasn't very tight control over exactly what it was.
It was anyway.
I don't think it was, but I wasn't, I mean, I was listed as an advisor, but rather a advisor.
I don't think we had perhaps a careful enough plan of what to go for.
Inasmuch as I'd made an aim, but I think I'd suggested, but I can't remember how long ago this was, that
one might have a sort of a Yale translation of the Chinese classics in some way, so that students of the future might be told by that teacher, oh good, the Yale edition of the Book of Changes, or the Yale edition of the early poetry text, maybe thinking a bit of the great Harvard series of
in the Loeb library for the Greek and classical works. Yeah that's a great question. But it wasn't, I never felt focused and it never worked out. I think it...so difficult. Did you start with facing text as well? Well, that was part of the idea, possible, this was only a sketch.
So I think it took a life of its own.
It went into one or two very large format, very comprehensive art book.
Yeah, but I think as a coherent series, it didn't quite come together.
And my understanding is that John Donatich made the decision that it was not sustainable in the current form.
And we should maybe spin it off to other interested parties.
I think the original concept was for the next 75, 80, and large engines, and now they're talking 10.
It was too ambitious.
And now they're going to focus on individual art forms, sculpture, architecture, painting, and so on.
And that, I think... The other idea was to have a real ongoing kind of...
a true exchange of ideas with scholars in China and the scholars in either the U.S.
or Europe or elsewhere.
And I think that sometimes happens, but not in a systematic way.
Is it the kind of thing, you used the phrase, too ambitious, you think it was too ambitious, and I guess there's a parallel question.
Is it the kind of project that the university press or Yale University press
It should be attempted, or is it to admit?
Well, it was... I guess you don't know what's going to work until you try it.
But this was a big, this was a... This is a big, but it was never... I think the ground rules weren't defined adequately.
We didn't.
Because in Chinese textual tradition, you have sort of what look like great key texts.
But the point is, those are enmeshed in a huge sea of scholarly commentary,
and analysis, you know, spanning 2,000 years or more.
These are very often texts compiled between maybe the 7th and the 4th century BCE.
So you have many, many decisions to make.
Even what, you know, it's easy in a brief lunch to say, let's do this text.
What is hard is to say who defines what that text is.
Because it's like any great commentary tradition.
It keeps complicating itself.
And the more scholarly you get, the more you find the text is problematic.
And so, is it possible it more just to have maybe something like Confucius's Analects, which has been translated dozens of times anyway, but it's probably one of the basic texts, so to speak.
And yet again, there are variants of this, there are different dates, there are different emendations, there are different analyses.
You know, it's a complicated world, and
I think it was too much for us.
Was that the goal in the original?
Sorry?
Was that the initial goal of the film?
Well, in as much as I had a sketch for an idea, which I didn't think ever even got into writing, it was just sort of conversational.
Maybe there was room, you know, for a grand series that would be the Yale series, you know.
The Thomas More collection, or the Jonathan Edwards collection.
Yeah, that's strictly a textual element, but you're saying it would also have involved the architectural and the artistic... Well, that was sort of floating around at the same time, and somehow the two, I think, got drawn together for a period of time.
But again, I don't think the artistic side was coordinated with the textual side.
So what is something like this generating form?
I mean, is it part of the political climate of the time, or...?
Is there a thirst for more knowledge on China?
Were there market studies?
I know that's probably a dirty word in university press publishing, but did they feel that perhaps there was an audience or a readership for this material at this particular point?
I think the press, I mean, is always aware of the presence or lack of some kind of an audience.
I mean, they do need to have that.
People read their books, and it's possible to buy them.
Maybe not on the scale of trade publishers, but even non-profits have to break even in some way or another.
And the press has very often paid for itself by the success of two or three titles, which can carry a lot of much lower-selling monographic studies.
This is decision for the board and the director of the press.
We do many, many ventures every year.
You know, we're well over a hundred books, covering an enormous range.
Oh, I think it's over two.
Yeah, each list of the spring and my fall, I think, is a hundred or more.
And so that's it.
They've got very, very good stuff, and some projects come to brilliant fruition, and others, I think, get stalled.
I think if you're saying, was this kind of riding a...
a somewhat emergent China boom or China expansion.
I think that's true.
There was a lot of interest in China.
We got a strong program here that covers language and the social sciences and humanities, art, religion, a very good, a whole range of language teaching, textbook production, you know, so it fitted in a
on paper into some of our ongoing concerns.
Do you feel is it just a general rule?
I mean, I've written a lot about special collections in libraries, which is my fundamental interest.
And as a general rule, you like to say, well, the collections kind of support the curriculum, generally speaking.
I don't personally feel necessarily that if you have an opportunity to get a great special collection, you should not get it because you don't have a course in it.
But do you think that the university press should more or less function in a similar kind of a way?
I think a university press does two things at once.
To some extent it follows current interest and to another extent it fosters scholarly areas that it thinks are promising and may be likely to expand or an area where they think they've located a
a scholar who would give strong leadership for a particular line of publishing.
It might be a new zone.
You might go into works on child psychiatry, for instance, aware that this was a field that didn't quite have a strong identity with a particular press.
You might decide to go into impressionist and post-impressionist painting on a really large way, you know, so you became sort of simply the best,
first thing to do is look at the Yale list.
But as both all the directors I've known, as Chester Kerr and John Ryden and my John Donatage, at the same time, they're trying to keep a viable list across the whole, you know, across the fields that were already strong.
So innovation is involved, sometimes buying the rights to a great series, like, for instance, Pevner's English
architecture series and art.
There's a world-famous scholar with a series of books that became, a list that became available, and I think the press very shrewdly said, wanted to keep these in print, and figured there was a continuing market.
Scholarship's hard to gauge.
Eighty-year-old scholarship can seem as current today, or it can be hopelessly
outmoded, and you try and juggle it.
They're going to buy the rights to pass titles.
That's, of course, a publishing decision for anybody, whether it's from the American Library or Vintage, or, you know, they all have to make some kind of decision like that.
Now, you've been here for a good while.
A good long time.
I came as a student in 59.
So you've actually been here while so much is
changed, and while the press in particular has won, I think you've been involved with it for a number of years.
Yeah, yeah.
I used to be on the Publications Committee, where Chester Kerr invited me to join.
And that was very exciting, and a great committee.
We'd read a lot, and we argued and talked a lot about the books, and it was just very stimulating, I love Chester.
Can you tell me a little bit about that?
I mean, he was a different person from... Chester Kerr was a kind of...
I think it's sort of, in a way, a kind of publishing visionary and a perfectionist.
He had, I think, very strong views of how Yale might create a sort of world-class university press.
He'd come, I think, what was it, Tickton Field, I think?
I'm not sure it was Tickton Field.
Maybe that's where he went later.
But he'd had publishing experience.
He'd had strong connections with Yale.
And so I think my memory of Chester Curry is largely just him going for quality, just wanting to make sure that inadequate books were not slipping by the system, that the Publications Committee really would, with his own staff, the editorial staff, would really read carefully manuscripts that were coming in, and would try and decide not just on the basis of current senior faculty handing in a manuscript,
Though he felt that was important to try and keep Yale's faculty publishing with the press.
And I must confess I tended to go elsewhere for the publication.
But that was a private decision of mine.
But so you both try and get the local faculty and you try and really scan the world of learning out there to try and find
I think Chester had a sense of where great strengths might lie, and I think history was one of them, English literature was one of them, the great collections, even, but also doing some modern writing, the Younger Poets series and so on, trying to keep some... Which is a fabulous program.
Yeah, it's been great.
I already had a Chester-John Hollander about that, and... Yeah, John would know this.
I just, I just feel that American poetry owes so much to the Yale series.
Yeah.
But so Chester was just enormously lively.
He was, as I said, he exasperated a good many people.
And he, the press was an extension of himself, too, I think.
I think in some ways.
But he also looked, he saw himself in a continuity of fine publishers, you know.
I think he wanted it for the best press in the States.
I don't think he was a modest man.
As soon as the British Art Centre came, you know, he saw the possibilities of linkage here.
Which is, I think, a perception.
I mean, it was almost insightful.
But it wasn't inevitable.
Somebody had to make the decision to really begin thinking how we might publish great art books that would also be academically very strong.
Of course, I thought that Yale would take over the field, as in my view they have.
And I see a lot of books as a reviewer.
They're superb.
They're superb books.
And then I think he was very interested in expanding Yale Press in London.
Which is a story into itself.
Which is a complete story.
But so that... That is actually an independent kind of unit.
It works very fine, particularly under Nichol.
It was a very... Well, I'll be interviewing him.
I'll be going over this.
Well, he... I mean, that was... Those were great days in London.
And so he...
Again, Chester loved the whole idea of having offices as possible in Bloomsbury Square and linking, you know, Yale and London and this kind of thing, partly intellectual, partly social, partly just the sheer delight of global interconnections in this way.
So I found him enormous fun to work with, and it was a committee that had awesome members, you know, much senior to me, so I felt like that.
For a junior person, it was really a great chance to learn.
People like them, Woodward and Ted Litz and Bob Dahl and Juan Linz.
It was an amazing, amazing group of people.
And you talk about the Yale faculty.
I mean, Yale has remarkable writers here.
When you participate in these meetings, is it a goal to try and
bring a lot of these writers in.
You mentioned in your own instance you have gone more or less to the trade.
And I wonder if you could talk a little bit about that.
This is my first academic press title, by the way.
Five for Harpers and Two for Holt.
This is really going to be a revelation for me working in this kind of a... I don't know what to expect, but it'll be interesting.
Yeah.
I guess I got interested long ago in the
something to do with the interconnection between scholarship and a more general readership.
And I used to ask myself why scholarship had to be arcane.
And that may be the wrong question, but that's how I phrased it to myself.
Maybe it would be possible to, instead of spending years and years and years on the research and then just trying to write it and get somebody to take it, suppose you spend half the time on the research and then half the time on the writing.
And really concentrate on
shut yourself away and go down and do it, you know, just do it, to the very limits of your ability, and then see who wanted to publish it and who wanted to read it.
And so, without that being quite that self-conscious, I, uh, suddenly it was publishers approaching me, and, uh, the first to do that was Little Brown, and then after that was Knopf.
And some later it was Viking Henry.
But a lot of this was personalities of editors.
I got involved in a different world.
I continued, I believe, to be a loyal member of the publication screening.
But my own work began to gather readership in so-called trade houses, began to be reviewed in journals where perhaps academic books aren't usually reviewed.
And then, you just named some of them, just...
Well, I, you know, early, one, two very helpful early reviews were from Time, from the New York Times itself.
TLS.
TLS, maybe not so much.
New York Reviews.
Because I was mainly, I was mainly in the States, New York Review, and some of this, I guess, was straightforwardly financial, because, you know,
That's not a dirty word in my lexicon.
It's not in my... I mean, I used to wonder, and... Well, the press now does approach the complex question of advances with... but still with caution.
We had a conversation before I agreed to do this.
Yeah, well, John Ryden would have to... I think John and... John Ryden and John John Fitch have faced this, and academic writers now perhaps
are being offered more.
Trade houses are coming into scholarly publishing.
Scholar publishing is going into trade.
It's more blurred, I think, than it used to be.
And sometimes somebody just writes absolutely wonderfully clearly, and publishers will be most depressed, and the book does wonderfully well, and that's good.
Other times one tries to... I don't believe in trying to
popularize such, I believe, in trying to write in such a way that any person of education can understand it.
Excessively?
Excessively, yes.
Are you looking for narrative when you're writing?
These words are hard to define.
I've always looked for narrative in my writing.
That's the trick, I think, right there.
Always.
Tell the story, and as a story, it doesn't matter what the subject matter.
That seems to be how I'm constipated.
But so this is shifting, you know, between the press and my personal interest in writing.
Which is fine.
I'm interested in this.
And I would guess that many writers and scholars at Yale or elsewhere face this.
I'm sure they do.
I knew they do.
I mean, so it's a question of how you want to market your work.
And then if you go to, as I did for some books, go to Norton, then again, you get a very...
publisher who is enormously skilled professional and has an extraordinarily good sense of where what is called a textbook might be allowed to grow, you know, stylistically in terms of market and so on.
So I feel I've had quite a lot of fun, you know, working with different publishers, sometimes following editors, sometimes following the house, you know, it's dependent.
different factors.
Have you brought this attitude to bear when you sit in the Publications Committee, having your attitude towards writing and the accessibility?
Well, we would all talk about it.
Things that you're looking for?
We would all talk about it, and then later, after Publications Committee, then eventually I got asked to be on the board, and that is more like long-range planning and whether to have a new building and this kind of thing, but also long-range strategy.
How does one keep financially viable?
How do you keep a strong list?
And the press, you know, through acquisition editors, this whole side is not one I'm truly familiar with.
Obviously, I think we use acquisition editors more adventurously now.
We try and find people who've written really fine books who might come back.
sometimes synthesize a lot of scholarly work for the press, you know, do maybe a 150, 200-page summation of a scholarly career, reflections on a scholarly life, this kind of thing.
We'll still be research, we'll be talking about research procedures.
So there seems to be plenty of motion here.
I mean, there are many other good university parties to it that we try.
I think we've been quite...
ambitious and maybe too ambitious in trying to be the best press.
Well, I mean, that cries to be followed up on.
Well, where do you think that presses are too ambitious, perhaps?
Well, how many books to publish is one of the very difficult questions, because some of the presses with enormous reach and maybe the largest resources
published many, many hundreds of books here, many times more than we do.
And so there was a decision about where does scale intersect with your view of quality and so on.
How many books can be well edited with a staff of ex-editors?
How much responsibility can we give editors of the various divisions of learning?
And the press has redefined, John Donatage has redefined that, tried to
come up with categories in which we should be concentrating.
And he thinks the books that fall outside those categories should probably only be sought after if they can, you know, if there's some new kind of clustering that is emerging here.
And this, to me, I think is a very interesting idea.
The board has a lot of trade publishers on it, and they're extremely successful people.
It also has academics on it, and people who had experience in university press work as well.
I mean, for instance, people from Norton on it, or Harper's.
I published with Harper's, I think, Jane Friedman.
Yeah, right.
And so there are some extremely fine publishers on the board who are willing to think these problems through with us.
It is interesting, then,
press for two or three years consecutively now is operating on the black.
It's profitable.
Yeah.
Which is almost unique among university presses.
I mean, maybe Oxford.
I think it's... I wonder how many others are there.
Yeah, well, I think they've really worked on that.
I mean, they've had to work on trying to develop an endowment as well.
And we've had some generous donors helping with publication of young authors, for instance.
Other sides of that would include sometimes being able to give them some larger advance if you think it's really worth it.
So all these different things integrated there.
Oh, is that the phone?
No, my wife, I think she said she'll get it upstairs.
I may have to get a call further soon.
Okay, just give me a heads up.
It's okay.
I'm not sure.
We got a call coming from Hong Kong.
We've been 15 or 20 minutes there.
Just carry on.
I mean, I'll try.
Oh, we're doing wonderful.
And what I wanted was a conversation.
I really didn't come with any kind of agenda.
Yeah, okay, okay.
I'm hoping to do maybe 15 or 20 interviews, and...
create a kind of a critical mass of stuff, and then they figure out what the hell I'm going to do with it.
I told John, you know, I know there are expectations for a book that is kind of a selective history of the press.
It's either going to be a snoozer, you know, or some book.
And I said, I basically write books that I expect to be read, you know.
My goal was to come in here and to write a book that people in the industry are going to say, this is pretty good, this is interesting.
And that's the goal for me.
I mean, to actually write a book that's killed out.
Such an arcane subject that is going to command attention.
We'll see.
No, that seems a good ambition.
But it's not just a puff book.
No, no.
I mean, I am.
I'm not avoiding the... I know they're sensitive about this China thing.
Why be sensitive about it?
I mean, you have your ups, you have your downs, and everything can't be a home run, you know.
Right, right.
But still, there may be angles of that, but then the director of the press can reflect on it.
I think so, yeah.
It could be, yeah.
I suppose a lot of that had to do with the availability of money that was coming from foundations or whatever.
I think the money was there to cover
what we were doing.
It wasn't necessarily to cover what was projected.
But again, I was not in on the financial decisions.
I was in on that.
I mean, I was asked about the decision to cut back, and I said, in view of what I'd been told about the situation, that was probably a good idea.
I mean, but this had a lot to do with, and I'm not privy to it, I haven't explored it, but personalities, I guess, people who were here are no longer here, and that kind of thing.
I don't see that getting a... This is about a 50,000-word manuscript.
This is not a 50,000-word manuscript, so I have to think of it in terms of just how much attention you have to give to a certain thing.
Sure.
Well, I mean, there may be a story in the projects that did not completely take off.
Yeah.
Well, can you think of it?
I mean, we look at it.
We look... I don't know.
I'm trying to think.
some of the great collections of letters and essays and so on, you know, some of them did get either bogged down or they began to just expand more and more and more.
Because I have asked these questions, you know, what are some of the ones that got away or that you regret having?
Well, I think the ones that just sort of got somewhat trapped or the press got somewhat trapped in the need for more and more
volumes that have been very, very handsomely published, but, you know, the idea of completion, something like the Thomas More project, or something like the Edwards, or the Walpole project, you know, these are moments.
Well, if no more went forever, but there are only so many Lefty Lewis's who work.
Exactly.
If you get a dedicated scholar who can help support or subsidize this, then of course you have a lot going for you.
And I think Yale Press has done, like Yale faculty, particularly maybe until the 1960s, maybe even the 70s, did very well from having some scholars with access to quite large sums of money, whether family or foundation, I think it might be a private.
And the idea of a faculty member
being really at home in London auction houses and so on, and snapping up any manuscript by X or Y, was very much established here.
And a shrine to a lot of that is the Beinecke, you know, which is... And then another grand example is the British Art Center, with all the documentation that backs it up, that there's an enormous amount of manuscripts.
But of course the Beinecke really doesn't intersect that much with the press, though, doesn't it?
Not with the press, but it does with the collectors and the idea of the faculty as collectors and as scholars.
I don't know, it's possible that we could intersect more with the Beinock.
You know, we depend on the kind of project or the kind of addition.
I would have thought that it would be a natural.
I mean, just the way the Belmap Press was established at Harvard, not that it necessarily followed their route, but one of the ideas
was that this money would be used to publish things, unpublished, to publish things previously unpublished in the Houghton collections or wherever, you know, and I don't know if that's necessary.
Well, Frank Turner would be, probably, I'm sure he's not going to live there.
He'd be very helpful on this, and I think Jerry Pelican would be full of ideas about this.
He's not, well, unfortunately.
Is he not?
He can't.
He's not doing interviews, and I just don't think I'm very...
Well, I'm glad to hear.
In fact, my editor, Harper's work with him, he's just been doing a huge series of books.
Amazing.
I'm hoping that he'll change his mind.
I'd love to talk to him, even if it's just for half an hour.
He, to me, symbolizes the kind of changing goals and ambitions of the press.
somebody who's been extremely steadfast, I think, in publishing with the press, though he's also published elsewhere.
But he's been a powerful figure on the board and the Publications Committee for a huge amount of time.
So, by the way, was Don Lamb.
I don't know if you've talked to Don.
No.
And there, the intersection of trade and scholarly press was very, very strong.
And he was a very
I think, sort of devoted chairman of the world.
Do you have a good, sound, right sense of what a university press is or should be, and whether or not Yale approaches this ideal?
Well, I think one of the things it should be is the guardian of genuine standards, of excellence, and kind of a way of making
something based on true research scholarship available.
One could add in that to professionals, or one could bracket that and say to the interested public, and there's, of course, an enormous difference there.
But I think the keeper of really strong standards to try the attempt not to publish books that have
enormous gaps in their evidential structures, you know, to have books, maybe have speculative books at intervals, but that are declared to be speculative.
Obviously you can have amazingly vigorous people.
Could you give me an example of a speculative?
Well, maybe a book by Steiner, for instance, on intellectual theory,
or by the art historian and philosopher.
I'm blanking on the name.
Where about that?
Not Planofsky, but... No, I'm blanking on that.
Have there been any books in particular that you've championed to the press, if you take a special degree of satisfaction in having... I think there'd be quite... I probably wouldn't put my name without any one particular book, because this is usually a sort of group process.
It's sort of a group process in which we would meet as a publications committee, and then we would swap views with the editors.
And I don't want to think of myself, you know...
pushing any particular stable or roster of writers.
I think, in my case, it was more trying to evaluate things I got asked to evaluate.
And I'm still asked.
And sometimes these are books that one has some real worries about.
And one is trusted, I think, to share that with the colleagues or with the editors and so on.
Sometimes those worries may be overwritten.
not important.
And it's difficult to know, I mean, some people are, that's why Jerry is a real polymath, you know, I don't feel I am in that same way.
And it depends how many zones of discipline you can read, you know, John Hollander is that sort of a polymath, just a wonderful, huge mind, you know, that can, I think David Bromwich is like that, and certainly David Bromwich would have some very good views on this.
because he's got a strong mind, I think.
And so different people have had perhaps a bit more influence in building up some particular subsection of publishing within the press.
I mean, I haven't for instance seen it as my job to, coming back to the original question,
push lots and lots of Chinese studies, Chinese history.
If there is something good that's sent in, I'll look at it.
If I'm asked, I won't demand to look at it.
And if I have something that I hear of, I might send it, at least send the name of the author to the history editor and say, I really like this manuscript, you might want to take a look.
But, I mean, I was there in a
I guess in as much as the Publications Committee has fairly demarcated slots for the various years I was there, it was pretty much a history slot.
And if you've got someone like Ben Woodward or Jerry Pelican as other, you know, you're not going to make all the decisions yourself.
You're going to have a sort of a shared group, and at different times different people come and go into this position.
But history, I think, has been a very strong part of the press, as it is, I don't think all around the world, whether our university press is history, but is a natural for evidential research and the possibility of presenting it in a way that can transcend a small group of devoted scholars and maybe have further public resonance.
lots of press to see that, but then the whole technical side of history that are indeed arcane and are going to be accessible in a very small group.
Certain kinds of quantitative history and certain kinds of linguistic history are going to be tight in that relationship.
So I think I'm, I don't think I'll claim I got that for the press, you know, because I think it would always be, my feeling is it's always a group
But generally, you could certainly claim enthusiasm in the sense of being proud that you published it.
Proud to publish category.
The press published it, yeah.
Well, I mean you and the collective you, the press.
If you were to pick up a little monograph that was attempting to do a centennial appreciation, I think it's much too ambitious to suggest that I could do a history of this thing.
and the limitations that they've given me, which is 40,000 to 50,000 words.
What would you like to see discussed and considered something like this?
What are areas that you feel?
I mean, Eric Gettis' history of Yale has pointedly not included the press.
He said to me, you know, I'm not doing the press.
I would be interested to see you do a few.
What would I be remiss?
And what about, do you think?
Doesn't necessarily have to be a specific topic, rather specific.
I guess trying to work out why it was all worth doing, whether a university press like this was able to do things that other people could not do or would not have done, and that thus they are kind of raising the discussion level in a society at large.
A university press should not be perceived, in my view, as a haven for books that couldn't be published elsewhere, let's say.
That could not be.
It could not be published, say, in the commercial sphere.
Well, I think that sometimes happens, but it shouldn't be perceived as that.
No, I think that's why that's a sort of dusty view of the press.
And I think Yale and some others have fought very strongly to get out of there.
state locals.
Some state universities might obviously favor history from their own state.
That is understood in some areas.
I think we are trying to be global, because we do have a faculty that has an enormous amount of disciplines, cumulatively.
And so we want to use the resources that we have, I think, as I said before, to kind of
keep discourse, maybe, at a very high level, and try and do things that show the intellectual life is exciting, is worth living, and is shareable.
You know, it's something that can kind of enrich people.
I think that would be the ultimate virtue of it.
You know, I've got a lot of books to get around from
in the press, but I mean, I've also gotten to lots of other places, you know, and I always wish there was more time to read them.
It's hard even to read all the press's lists.
I don't read all the press's lists every time.
I mean, there is a view among people who should know better than a university press, not necessarily this one, exists.
To publish the dissipations of its faculty, you know,
And in some cases that doesn't happen here.
I think it happens very little now.
Occasionally a dissertation is a wonderful book.
It can be a wonderful book.
And I wrote my dissertation as a book, and I tend to try and direct dissertations either as books or very much potentially as books.
I don't try and direct them as dissertations.
I try and make them as a contribution to learning that's also accessible.
But you have problems in just the sheer cost of notation, you know, is high.
And again, there can be pressure to have fewer notes or to bunch them together or to have them published separately.
I mean, all these discussions now are going on.
How do you actually keep the annotation structure?
That is what really defines a lot of academic publishing, which is that there
whatever you say should be comfortably traceable by the reader so they can learn more and also look more at how you are using the source that you say you're using.
So that whole factor of how you're going to reach people and how much should you spend on design?
How much should you spend on graphics?
What about jacket?
When you come into a meeting of the board of Yale Press and the table is lined with that B.A.'
's list, it's an astonishing sight.
It's just an astonishing sight.
A blaze of colour, a typography, and illustrations from images from all over the world.
How often does that happen?
Usually at every board meeting, there might be 60 or 70 books displayed from the previous list or the one that's coming or some intersection.
And so there is this magnificent central room with that grand table, and there are seats all around the table for the board and the ex officio members.
How often do they meet?
The board at the moment is meeting three times a year, and sometimes we've met four times a year.
Is it one upcoming?
Yeah, at the end of October.
Or maybe they'll come.
October 28th, I think.
They told me if they come to these things, why not?
I'll try and go to those.
But again, you're coming in.
I mean, the mornings are, the subcommittees will meet, and I think those may not, I don't think they're really public to me, I don't know.
But there is the Finance Committee, and then there's the discussion with the Publications Committee, and there's the, I guess there's the sort
I can't remember the two or three subcontinues that meet in the morning, and I haven't been on those.
See, one of these might make an interesting little scene built in a little book, but you never know if it's as dramatic as you're suggesting.
Well, I think to see the table like that is astonishing.
But then the other kind of scene that you should visit, if they don't feel it violates confidentiality, would be the actual publication.
Well, basically, yesterday I can sit in.
I think that was... I disagree.
John's going to be my editor, so he's...
Nothing embarrassing is going to get by.
No, I mean that.
I mean, there's only work in as much as people can be really frank about the people who have submitted books.
And some of the problems come.
I'm sure, in all kinds of publishing, when people won't speak their mind, frankly.
Well, I mean, I think I'd go in without a tape recorder playing, but just to pick up some of the nuances of... Yeah, I think... Well, I think both the publications committee and one of the subcommittees of the board would be pretty good.
Would be very much part of your story.
Yeah, yeah.
And give me an approach, an entry into the thing.
Right, right, right.
I just used to love going to those meetings.
So you've been to many of these over the years?
Oh, yeah, a dozen, a dozen.
I have no idea how many years ago.
Are they entertaining for you, or do they...?
They were intellectual hard work.
Yes, and entertaining.
Intellectual hard work, because there is a responsibility here, isn't there?
Well, they're trying to read manuscripts on many different fields, you know, and it'll depend what you're given, what you're asked to do.
You could concentrate on the history ones or something different.
First of all, science could say, hey, can you take a look at this?
It's on, you know, maybe on the Chinese Revolution, or it may be on some
aspect of liberal science that cuts across history and something you've done in the past.
You can have a problematic title, they might say, look, we want several members to look at this one on history of art, because they're not quite sure what's going on here.
I remember being asked to do one term history photography, not because I was a historian of photography, just because they felt I might be a good judge of what was going on.
And so these
That experimental side is important, I mean.
And just, I'll ask you one other question.
We're up to noon already, which is great.
You've given me an hour of your time.
Sure, sure.
How do you feel about, we were talking about the scholarly apparatus and the annotations with the servo works, et cetera.
How do you feel about this electronic endeavor being championed, say, by Robert Darden?
I'm a champion, but he's working with it.
He's trying to develop it.
Well, this is the whole sort of Gutenberg-y project.
I know that it's proved much more problematic than people expected, and professional associations have also worked with e-publishing.
In fact, the American Historical Association has worked with electronic publishing, particularly trying to work out whether scholars can be
Do you mind if I take a couple photographs, by the way?
No, if you'd like.
Just ignore me while you speak.
Okay, okay.
But anyway, the attempt to use, to try and work out whether you can help put scholarly work directly into publishable form, you know, through e-publishing, is something that, I don't know if you'd want to pursue it or not, but...
Lots of members of the press, I think, have their views on this.
And I'm sure Dartich has thought about it a lot.
And I know John Ryden began to think about it, too, in his tenure.
But I know that they proved very hard to get ready to go, and they proved very, very hard to make conveniently accessible to readers.
And there's obviously, again, strong reader resistance as well.
In the American Historical Association project,
they failed to come up with a number of titles they hoped to come up with.
That was to have some kind of intermediate zone of fairly rapidly produced email or e-ready publication, either through the Gutenberg or some other kind of project.
And Columbia Press was working on this with the American Historical Association and maybe, probably other professional associations.
And they would have to give you the
background on all this, but what I do know is that it was not nearly as easy to do as it looked to those who were at the cutting edge of the sort of electronic world.
I am nowhere near the electronic world, and I don't understand anything about it, and I would never be able to even read the books that were coming out from there.
But do you think it's a viable alternative for a young doctoral candidate having trouble finding a publisher for a... Well, that's the point is... The point is,
Well, may become so.
And the idea of having a book before you get a job might be simply impractical in the moderately near future.
I mean, for instance, you could have your dissertation in some kind of photocopy, unpublished, you know, when you got your job, but now it's probably different in that way.
But it hasn't proved easy to make this jump.
And I... There is a fascination with the book.
You know, there's a loyalty to the book.
The various other forms of reading haven't been able to really match.
I still hate reading long things on the screen.
I have yet to meet anyone.
I was at a forum last week at the Boston Athenaeum, and they had these digital... What is the Athenaeum going to do in the next hundred years?
They've got a big donor about to...
commit some money to them for acquiring the building next door, and Estona was there anonymously.
I've never spoken to an anonymous audience, but this one person, I mean, the trustees were there, but you know that this thing was being put together for the one person who was probably the most important one there.
But I was kind of the Luddite, you know, there, who still believes that the book, the physical book, is different from the
I do, too, the electronics.
And so I asked the question, and I said, is there anyone in this room who has read a book from beginning to end on a computer screen?
Only the guy from the National Digital Library put up his hand.
I said, you don't count.
You know, my eyes have gone to hell in a basket because of the terminal screens, all the work I do on a computer terminal.
I just can't imagine reading a book
It's going to run out of juice anyway halfway across the Atlantic Ocean, in any case.
I can't do it.
I'm not trying, and I don't want to.
I mean, I'm using age as an example.
But on the other hand, there are plenty of octogenarians who are quite happy with our little iPods.
I just haven't entered that world.
I've got some great pictures.
I'm staying in the book, the book I can hold.
I don't know.
But even on the screen, I just, if I've got something longish on the screen, I just print it out and then read it in an old-fashioned way.
Oh, you have a paperless society now.
Yeah.
You regenerate more paper now.
Yeah, with thousands of sheets.
I throw away every week.
Thousands of sheets.
Okay.
Listen, I've taken up an hour of your time.
You're a busy man.
It was nice talking with you, and I really appreciate that.
I didn't really have a...
I'm just kind of finding my way right now, as you can appreciate.
And, you know, they say, can you come and write a... But Bart Giamatti was a wonderful member of that.
Oh, I just so, I just so grieve not being able to... We were the young students, you know, Chester Kerr, a white student.
We were the young students.
Suddenly in the midst of all this galaxy of world-famous figures.
And it was a great honor for us.
Well, let's just get that on tape.
It's a pretty good example.
Oh, no.
You talk about... They were rolling again.
No, I'm just saying that Chester Kerr, and I think others have tried to follow him, but Chester Kerr really successfully tried to get what he thought of as the very best.
senior scholars, you know, to be on the publication screening and to come at the regular meetings and to assess what was going on.
And so to be asked to join as a young faculty of Bart and I, I remember, it was just, it was literally thrilling.
I mean, it was astonishing.
So we felt, not exactly our best behavior, we got quite... The card being, because the tape recorder's on now Barchamati.
Barchamati, yeah, yeah.
And Chester Kerr finally, like two schoolboys, he told us we had to sit apart from each other because we were so disruptive by passing each other notes.
So that sort of liveliness was something that the committee had.
So it had some high seriousness and a lively feel to it, which is, I think, what I feel Chester Kerr himself did.
the sense of intellectual inquiry at a delightful level, you know, is what pleased him, I think.
What kind of an attitude or an approach did Barth bring to the... Well, this would be too hard, I think, for me to unravel across all these years.
This must have been in the... I can't... I should think the early 70s.
I just remember Barth being very sceptical about puffery in scholarship and...
He loves spotting kind of intellectual inconsistencies in somebody's position.
He was watchful about quality.
It's hard to kind of recapture that extraordinary mind.
Just playful, terrifically playful, and erudite, and probably a bit iconoclastic as well.
And to oppress
He was a very good scholar himself.
He was so enamored with baseball.
Yes, absolutely passionate with baseball.
So he would meet every single week to talk with Harold Bloom about baseball.
That was their inviolable meeting that had to take place, as they had went to a delicatessen and thrashed out the previous ones.
Of course, Boone is a Yankee fan in part, because they're like myself.
They're dying now at the Red Sox.
Absolutely.
Collapsing in the East.
But these were passionate meetings, and so that
That kind of enormous liveliness is what I remember him for.
But it was certainly fun together.
Thank you, sir.
I'm very generous with your time.